The President:
On Wednesday, I addressed a joint session of Congress and
the American people about why we
need health insurance reform and
what it will take to do it.
Since then, I've continued to
hear from many Americans across
the country about why this
is so urgent and important.
I've heard from Americans who
can't get health coverage;
men and women who worry that one
accident or illness could drive
them into bankruptcy.
And I've heard from Americans
with insurance who thought that
"the uninsured" always
referred to someone else --
but between skyrocketing costs
and insurance company practices;
they're beginning to worry
that they could find themselves
uninsured too.
It's an anxiety that's keeping
more and more Americans awake at night.
Over the last twelve months,
nearly six million more
Americans lost their
health coverage --
that's 17,000 men and
women every single day.
We're not just talking about
Americans in poverty, either --
we're talking about
middle-class Americans.
In other words, it
can happen to anyone.
And based on a brand-new report
from the Treasury Department,
we can expect that about half of
all Americans under 65 will lose
their health coverage at some
point over the next ten years.
If you're under the
age of 21 today,
chances are more than half that
you'll find yourself uninsured
at some point in that time.
And more than one-third of
Americans will go without
coverage for longer
than one year.
I refuse to allow
that future to happen.
In the United States of America,
no one should have to worry that
they'll go without
health insurance --
not for one year, not for
one month, not for one day.
And once I sign my health
reform plan into law -- they won't.
My plan will provide more
security and stability to those
who have health
insurance; offer quality,
affordable choices to
those who currently don't;
and bring health care costs for
our families, our businesses,
and our government
under control.
First of all, if you are among
the hundreds of millions of
Americans who already have
insurance through your job,
or Medicare, or
Medicaid, or the VA,
nothing in my plan will require
you or your employer to change
the coverage or the
doctor you have.
What my plan will do is make the
insurance you have work better for you.
We'll make it illegal for
insurance companies to deny you
coverage because of a
pre-existing condition,
or drop your coverage
when you get sick,
or water it down when
you need it the most.
They'll no longer be able to
place some arbitrary cap on the
amount of coverage you can
receive in a given year or over
a lifetime, and we will place
a limit on how much you can be
charged for
out-of-pocket expenses --
because no one should go broke
just because they get sick.
Second, if you're one of
the more than thirty million
Americans who
can't get coverage,
you'll finally have
quality, affordable choices.
If you lose your
job, change your job,
or start your own business, you
will be able to get coverage.
And as I've said
over and over again,
I will not sign a plan that adds one dime to our deficits -- period.
This plan will be paid for.
The middle-class will
realize greater security,
not higher taxes.
And if we can successfully slow
the growth of health care costs
by just one-tenth
of 1% each year,
it will actually reduce the
deficit by $4 trillion over the long term.
Affordable, quality care within
reach for the tens of millions
of Americans who
don't have it today.
Stability and security for the
hundreds of millions who do.
That's the reform we seek.
We have had a long
and important debate.
But now is the time for action.
Because every day we wait, more
Americans will lose their health
care, their businesses,
and their homes --
but also the dreams they've
worked for and the peace of mind
they deserve.
They are why we have to succeed.
So if you're willing to put
country before party and the
interests of our
children above our own;
if you refuse to settle for a
politics where scoring points is
more important than solving
problems; and if you believe,
as I do, that America can still
come together to do great things
-- then join us.
Give us your help.
And we will finally get health
insurance reform done this year.